[1.19.x] Document Forge extensions of the model JSON format (#493)
MinecraftForge/Documentation: docs/rendering/modelextensions/facedata.md

Face Data
=========

In a vanilla "elements" model, additional data about an element's faces can be specified at either the element level or the face level. Faces which do not specify their own face data will fall back to the element's face data or a default if no face data is specified at the element level.

To use this extension for a generated item model, the model must be loaded through the `forge:item_layers` model loader due to the vanilla item model generator not being extended to read this additional data.

All values of the face data are optional.

Elements Model
--------------

> In vanilla "elements" models the face data applies to the face it is specified in or all faces of the element it is specified in which don't have their own face data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In vanilla "elements" models, the face data applies to the face it is specified in or all faces of the element it is specified in which don't have their own face data.
```

The additional data can be specified in the two ways shown in this example:
```js
{
  "elements": [
    {
      "forge_data": {
        "color": "0xFFFF0000",
          "block_light": 15,
          "sky_light": 15,
          "ambient_occlusion": false
      },
      "faces": {
        "north": {
          "forge_data": {
            "color": "0xFFFF0000",
            "block_light": 15,
            "sky_light": 15,
            "ambient_occlusion": false

>           },

Reviewer 2: Are the face and top model specification an overwrite or is it merged from the parent if a field is not defined?

Author: Added a comment detailing the override behaviour

          // ...
        },
        // ...
      },
      // ...
    }
  ]
}
```

Generated Item Model
--------------------

> In generated item models loaded through the `forge:item_layers` loader the face data applies to all faces generated from the texture specified for the layer the respective entry is associated with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In generated item models loaded through the `forge:item_layers` loader, the face data applies to all faces generated from the texture specified for the layer the respective entry is associated with.
```

> The additional data has to be specified at the top level with the entry names in the `forge_data` object being the layer index the respective entry belongs to (in the example layer 1 will be tinted red and glow at full brightness):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The additional data has to be specified at the top level with the entry names in the `forge_data` object being the layer index the respective entry belongs to (in the example, layer 1 will be tinted red and glow at full brightness):
```

```js
{
  "textures": {
    "layer0": "minecraft:item/stick",
    "layer1": "minecraft:item/glowstone_dust"
  },
  "forge_data": {
    "1": {
      "color": "0xFFFF0000",
      "block_light": 15,
      "sky_light": 15,
      "ambient_occlusion": false
    }
  }
}
```

Parameters
----------

### Color

Specifying a color value with the `color` entry will apply that color as a tint to the quads. Defaults to `0xFFFFFFFF` (white, fully opaque). The color must be in the `ARGB` format packed into a 32-bit integer and can be specified as either a hexadecimal string (`"0xAARRGGBB"`) or as a decimal integer literal (JSON does not support hexadecimal integer literals).

!!! warning
    If the color is specified as a 24-bit integer (no matter the representation), the resulting color will be fully transparent due to the alpha component being 0.

This can be used as a replacement for tinting with [`BlockColor` and `ItemColor`][tinting] if the color values are constant.

> ### Block and Sky Light

Reviewer: Skylight is usually spelled as the same word.

Author: Everything I can find in the game code writes it as two words. It would also look weird to have two different ways of spelling the two light types.

Reviewer: Fair enough

> Specifying a block and/or sky light value with the `block_light` and `sky_light` entry respectively will override the respective light value of the quads. Both values default to 0. The values must be in the range 0-15 (inclusive) and are treated as a minimum value for the respective light type when the face is rendered meaning that a higher in-world value of the respective light type will override the specified value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specifying a block and/or sky light value with the `block_light` and `sky_light` entry respectively will override the respective light value of the quads. Both values default to 0. The values must be in the range 0-15 (inclusive) and are treated as a minimum value for the respective light type when the face is rendered, meaning that a higher in-world value of the respective light type will override the specified value.
```

The specified light values are purely client-side and affect neither the server's light level nor the brightness of surrounding blocks.

### Ambient Occlusion

Specifying the `ambient_occlusion` flag will configure [AO] for the quads. Defaults to `true`. The behaviour of this flag is equivalent to the top-level `ambientocclusion` flag of the vanilla format.

![Ambient occlusion in action](./ambientocclusion.png)  

> *Ambient occlusion enabled on the left and disabled on the right, demonstrated with the Smooth Lighting graphics setting*

Reviewer 2: I see you have the comment here, but directly in the image would be better.

!!! note
    If the top-level AO flag is set to false, specifying this flag as true on an element or face won't be able to override the top-level flag.
    ```js
    {

>       "ambientocclusion": false,

Reviewer 2: I'm guessing this is supposed to be `ambient_occlusion`

Author: Nope, the vanilla key is written without an underscore: https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Tutorials/Models#Block_models

Face Data
=========

In a vanilla "elements" model, additional data about an element's faces can be specified at either the element level or the face level. Faces which do not specify their own face data will fall back to the element's face data or a default if no face data is specified at the element level.

To use this extension for a generated item model, the model must be loaded through the `forge:item_layers` model loader due to the vanilla item model generator not being extended to read this additional data.

All values of the face data are optional.

Elements Model
--------------

In vanilla "elements" models, the face data applies to the face it is specified in or all faces of the element it is specified in which don't have their own face data.

!!!note

>     The `forge_data` specified on a specific face completely overrides the `forge_data` specified on the whole element for that face and will not inherit any parameters from the element-level declaration.

Reviewer 3: I think the following would be simpler and clearer, and avoids unnecessary repetition:

```suggestion
    If `forge_data` is specified on a face, it will not inherit any parameters from the element-level `forge_data` declaration.
```

The additional data can be specified in the two ways shown in this example:
```js
{
  "elements": [
    {
      "forge_data": {
        "color": "0xFFFF0000",
          "block_light": 15,
          "sky_light": 15,
          "ambient_occlusion": false
      },
      "faces": {
        "north": {
          "forge_data": {
            "color": "0xFFFF0000",
            "block_light": 15,
            "sky_light": 15,
            "ambient_occlusion": false
          },
          // ...
        },
        // ...
      },
      // ...
    }
  ]
}
```

Generated Item Model
--------------------

In generated item models loaded through the `forge:item_layers` loader, the face data applies to all faces generated from the texture specified for the layer the respective entry is associated with.

> The additional data has to be specified at the top level with the entry names in the `forge_data` object being the layer index the respective entry belongs to (in the example, layer 1 will be tinted red and glow at full brightness):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In item models generated using the `forge:item_layers` loader, face data is specified for each texture layer and applies to all of the geometry (front/back facing quads and edge quads).

The `forge_data` field must be located at the top level of the model JSON, with each key-value pair associating a face data object to a layer index.

In the following example, layer 1 will be tinted red and glow at full brightness:
```

Face Data
=========

In a vanilla "elements" model, additional data about an element's faces can be specified at either the element level or the face level. Faces which do not specify their own face data will fall back to the element's face data or a default if no face data is specified at the element level.

To use this extension for a generated item model, the model must be loaded through the `forge:item_layers` model loader due to the vanilla item model generator not being extended to read this additional data.

All values of the face data are optional.

Elements Model
--------------

In vanilla "elements" models, the face data applies to the face it is specified in or all faces of the element it is specified in which don't have their own face data.

!!!note
    If `forge_data` is specified on a face, it will not inherit any parameters from the element-level `forge_data` declaration.

The additional data can be specified in the two ways shown in this example:
```js
{
  "elements": [
    {
      "forge_data": {
        "color": "0xFFFF0000",

>           "block_light": 15,
>           "sky_light": 15,
>           "ambient_occlusion": false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        "block_light": 15,
        "sky_light": 15,
        "ambient_occlusion": false
```

        // ...
      },
      // ...
    }
  ]
}
```

Generated Item Model
--------------------

In item models generated using the `forge:item_layers` loader, face data is specified for each texture layer and applies to all of the geometry (front/back facing quads and edge quads).

The `forge_data` field must be located at the top level of the model JSON, with each key-value pair associating a face data object to a layer index.

In the following example, layer 1 will be tinted red and glow at full brightness:
```js
{
  "textures": {
    "layer0": "minecraft:item/stick",
    "layer1": "minecraft:item/glowstone_dust"
  },
  "forge_data": {
    "1": {
      "color": "0xFFFF0000",
      "block_light": 15,
      "sky_light": 15,
      "ambient_occlusion": false
    }
  }
}
```

Parameters
----------

### Color

Specifying a color value with the `color` entry will apply that color as a tint to the quads. Defaults to `0xFFFFFFFF` (white, fully opaque). The color must be in the `ARGB` format packed into a 32-bit integer and can be specified as either a hexadecimal string (`"0xAARRGGBB"`) or as a decimal integer literal (JSON does not support hexadecimal integer literals).

!!! warning

>     The four color components are multiplied with the texture's pixels. If the alpha component is ommited, the quad will render fully transparent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    The four color components are multiplied with the texture's pixels. Omitting the alpha component is equivalent to making it 0, which will make the geometry fully transparent.
```

This can be used as a replacement for tinting with [`BlockColor` and `ItemColor`][tinting] if the color values are constant.

### Block and Sky Light

Specifying a block and/or sky light value with the `block_light` and `sky_light` entry respectively will override the respective light value of the quads. Both values default to 0. The values must be in the range 0-15 (inclusive) and are treated as a minimum value for the respective light type when the face is rendered, meaning that a higher in-world value of the respective light type will override the specified value.

The specified light values are purely client-side and affect neither the server's light level nor the brightness of surrounding blocks.

### Ambient Occlusion

Specifying the `ambient_occlusion` flag will configure [AO] for the quads. Defaults to `true`. The behaviour of this flag is equivalent to the top-level `ambientocclusion` flag of the vanilla format.

> ![Ambient occlusion in action](./ambientocclusion_annotated.png)  

Reviewer 2: Reference already in `[ao_img]` below but not associated.

Face Data
=========

> Additional data about an element's faces can be specified at either the element level or the face level in a vanilla "elements" model and in generated item models loaded through the `forge:item_layers` model loader. Faces which do not specify their own face data will fall back to the element's face data or a default if no face data is specified at the element level. All values of the face data are optional.

Reviewer 2: This is very misleading since it seems to talk about an extension to vanilla which then tells you to use Forge's model loader.

Author: Separated the mention of the Forge loader into a separate paragraph and elaborated on why that loader is needed

In a vanilla "elements" model the additional data can be specified in the two ways shown in this example:
```js
{
  "elements": [
    {
      "forge_data": {
        "color": "0xFFFF0000",
          "block_light": 15,
          "sky_light": 15,
          "ambient_occlusion": false
      },
      "faces": {
        "north": {
          "forge_data": {
            "color": "0xFFFF0000",
            "block_light": 15,
            "sky_light": 15,
            "ambient_occlusion": false
          },
          ...
        },
        ...
      },

>       ...

Reviewer 2: Use comments to explain things.

Also `// ...` to make valid JavaScript.

Author: I'm not sure what kind of comments to place within the example since the parameters are explained below

    }
  ]
}
```

In a generated item model loaded through the `forge:item_layers` loader the additional data has to be specified at the top level with the following format (entry names in the `forge_data` object are the layer index the respective entry belongs to):
```js
{
  "forge_data": {
    "1": {
      "color": "0xFFFF0000",
      "block_light": 15,
      "sky_light": 15,
      "ambient_occlusion": false
    },
    ...
  },
  ...
}

> ```

Reviewer 2: I do not understand how this differs from the above example as there is no relation to the `elements` tag and no comments are provided.

Author: Expanded the example to make it more obvious

In vanilla "elements" models the face data applies to the face it is specified in or all faces of the element it is specified in which don't have their own face data.  

> In generated item models loaded through the `forge:item_layers` loader the face data applies to all faces generated from the texture specified for the layer the respective entry is associated with.

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this go before the examples since it explains what they mean?

Author: Moved to more fitting places

Color
-----

> Specifying a color value with the `color` entry will apply that color as a tint to the quads. Defaults to `0xFFFFFFFF` (white, fully opaque). The color must be in the `ARGB` format packed into a 32bit integer and can be specified as either a hexadecimal string (`"0xAARRGGBB"`) or as a decimal integer literal (JSON does not support hexadecimal integer literals).

Reviewer 2: 32bit -> 32-bit.

Also should explain that only specifying a 24-bit integer will make the color fully transparent since that seems like a common issue.

Author: Note added

This can be used as a replacement for tinting with [`BlockColor` and `ItemColor`][tinting] if the color values are constant.

Block and Sky Light
-------------------

> Specifying a block and/or sky light value with the `block_light` and `sky_light` entry respectively will override the respective light value of the quads. Both values default to 0. The values must be in the range 0-15 (inclusive) and are treated as a minimum value for the respective light type when the face is rendered meaning that a higher in-world value of the respective light type will override the specified value.

Reviewer 2: This should probably be more specific whether the light affects the server or is purely client side. I'm thinking of how this would play with the `lightLevel` block property.

Author: Added a note about the non-existent effect on the actual light level and surrounding blocks

Ambient Occlusion
-----------------

> Specifying the ambient occlusion flag will configure AO for the quads. Defaults to `true`. The behaviour of this flag is equivalent to the top-level `ambientocclusion` flag of the vanilla format.

Reviewer 2: Link to AO wiki page would probably be helpful. Or maybe an example with an image.

Author: Added a link to the AO wiki page and an example image comparing AO on vs. off

!!! note

>     If the top-level AO flag is set to false, specifying this flag as true on an element or face won't be able to override the top-level flag

Reviewer 2: Give an example.

Author: Added an example
